Maintainability Review

Author of the code review: Ravi Wijeratne
Date of Code Review: 3/11/2026
Sprint Number 3
Name of files: Game1.cs ProjectilePlayerCollisionHandler.cs PlayerProjectileEnemyCollisionHAndler.cs
Note: the Game1.cs code here is a specific block in the update method of the Game1 class
Author of File: Owen Wang
Time taken: 50 minutes

This code I am looking at is specifically is the enemy collision handling logic. 
This is split up into two handler classes for the Enemy Projectiles and the Player Projectile.

Readabilty:
The two handler classes are very readable and easy to understand. They really only contain two methods that delegate most of the work to the player and enemy classes themselves. 
This makes understanding the reaction to the collision very easy, as the states induced are very descriptive and handle most of the necessary logic.
The detection logic, itself, is heavily nested and placed in the Game1 class. This makes it
harder to understand context of and harder to understand the logical flow. 
the refactoring I recommend later would massively fix this issue.


Maintainability:

Dividing the logic between the two handler classes is a smart choice, which makes sure we can easily seperate out player and enemy damage.
Also, we do avoid having our player accidentally attack themselves. Additionally, design-wise it remains consistent with our Command implementation structure.
The pattern for both of these Collision Handlers is also very simple, handing off logic to the Enemy and Player State Machines to handle taking damage and resolving the collision.
The main problem, maintainability wise, is the collision detection logic itself. 
It is located in Game1's update logic. This is where the logic should be called from, however, the entirety of the overlap/detection logic is located here. 
Moving forward it will be very unweildy to incorporate new changes in Game1. 
Additionally, the current design requires separate checks for both current enemy types.
Moving forward, I would recommend somehow making these the same check, maybe iterating on
the same collection of enemies. The seperate collision handling logic could be handled 
through the use of interfaces, allowing polymorphism to effectively condect the Enemy type check without manually doing it yourself.
This change would also simplify a lot of the nesting in the code, which itself isn't a problem but may present a problem maintaining moving forward.

Hypothetical Next Steps:
Completely refactor the collision detection out of Game1.update. Whether into its own class or 
between multiple classes is for continued debate. Additionally, new interfaces could be used to handle both enemies.
Maybe having an extra interface that aspid could extend that handled the projectile shooting logic.
