Sprint 5 Project Reflection

Now that we are at the end of the semester, it is clear that our team has come a long way. Compared to the previous sprints, this final sprint included significantly more implementations of features, additional content for the game, and bug-fixing. We are at a point now where we can confidently say that we have a fully playable game (for the most part).

While our team had already made great progress in terms of meeting the requirements for previous sprints, our primary goal for Sprint 5 was to fix what the grader referred to on our previous submission's comments as a "lack of content". Since we had already implemented a majority of the core gameplay features in Sprint 4, this sprint was about creating an actually fun experience for the players, and adding in new challenges we developed on our own which did not exist in the original Hollow Knight.

Of course, this goal did not come without its challenges. First off, the team as a whole struggled to come up with new, original ideas for Sprint 5 that we felt we would be reasonably able to implement in the time we had left. Over the course of the semester, we had already been continuously scaling the scope of the project down in order to be able to meet deadlines and achieve the requirements of each sprint. The team attempted to mitigate this by frequently going to office hours to seek feedback from the instructional team. However, we found that every time we would finish implementing new features, levels, and challenges, we would return to the graders, only to find out that we were once again missing certain features, or that we would need more content in a certain area.

Despite these challenges, the team managed to push through and finish all new feature implementations by the end of the sprint. Major achievements in this sprint (beyond the obvious one, finishing the game) included the implementation of an actual "level" (multiple rooms with unique layouts), additional game menus like the shop and start menu, and extra challenges for the player, including a final boss and a puzzle room (which itself hides a secret hidden room). The team also managed to overcome the challenge of debugging a multitude of issues that were discovered just days before the deadline, which included problems such as clipping through floors and walls, bugged spawns, and the HUD not working. While the end result may not be as polished as the real Hollow Knight, we would still call our final product a success, especially since we chose a more unconventional game to implement compared to the "default" game projects.

Reflecting on our work as a team, there was definitely an increase in communication efforts, especially after some mishaps during the last sprint. There have been some instances of members accidentally taking over each other's jobs or doing the wrong person's code reviews, but we made a bigger effort to correct this during this last sprint. Using GitHub issues and by updating our group chat after classes, we generally stayed on track this sprint, even though there was a little bit of crunch in the last week or so.

Overall, we would consider our final product to be a finished, fully playable experience. There are still things that we would look to improve going forward, if we ever decide to come back to this project on our own. Some examples would be things that got cut from other sprints, including additional enemies, some animation work, omnidirectional attacking, and some of the movement abilities found in the original Hollow Knight (ex. wall climbing and "pogoing" (bouncing off spikes with your weapon)). While it is not certain if we will ever revisit this project, the skills and camaraderie that the team has developed have been invaluable. We have learned a lot over the course of this semester, and the experience has inspired many of us to continue developing our own projects like this one in the future.

Miscelaneous Additional Thoughts on the Project From the Team:

This sprint involved much more development using the systems and tools that we had already created in previous sprints. This emphasizes the solidity of our design decisions in previous sprints.
Some desired functionality was cut, like omni directional attacking, which is a bummer. It would be cool to return to the project and add some of these later.
The game right now really captures some of the late-game boss-run sections(the path of pain), alot like the original game.
We really enjoyed playing around with the difficulty and creating bosses and areas that strained the mechanics and the player's understanding of them.



